Come on, Bro.
Whoo! Whoo, whoo, whoo!
Whoo!
Whoa. Whoa.
Hey, watch it.
You were in my way, Bro.
Oh, okay.
Whoo
Whoo!
Is that all you got?
You want to go faster, huh?
Whoo-hoo!
That was cool, Bro.
Skxawng, let go.
It was cool riding with you, Bro.
High four.
All right, I got to get back, Bro.
Little Brother,
tell me one thing before you go.
How did I die?
You got shot.
We could have escaped, but I made us go back for Spider.
Then we had to go back.
That's not your fault.
Tell that to Dad.
We weren't even supposed to be out there.
I got us caught because I disobeyed orders.
That's just you, Little Bro.
I love you, Brother.
Skxawng.
I killed my brother.
No matter what happens,
I have to live with that for the rest of my life.
I wish I could do it.
No, I wish I could do it.
If I have another stupid seizure underwater
Yeah,
you'd be me without a mask.
-Uh, let's test that. -Hey, hey.
-Watch it. -See what happens.
Hey, watch the stitches.
Uh-huh. Yeah, how do you like that, huh?
No! Ow!
The fire of hate
leaves only the ash of grief.
My mother mourned
the ancient way,
singing her son's life during the daily eclipse.
Because the light always returns.
There's the Na'vi way,
and then there's my dad's way.
Say nothing. Keep busy.
The Reef People say the sea washes you clean.
Washes away your sins.
What do you got?
You're supposed to be collecting guns.
That thing's useless.
Focus, boy.
Don't let your mother see that.
Hey, excuse me.
- Sorry. - Excuse me.
- Tuk. - Sorry.
Bro.
Ah, sick.
What is this?
Tsireya?
What are you doing?
This is an AR, all right?
This is the mag. It's where the bullets are.
Empty.
Slap it.
Rack it.
And then, boom, you can just spray.
You can kill a lot of Sky People with this.
See? Ceramic action.
You clean 'em and oil 'em, be as good as new.
This is not the Na'vi way,
Jakesully.
Weapons of metal are forbidden.
You know this.
To touch them
poisons the heart.
Eywa
will provide.
Right.
The mourning period is not even over.
Tuk.
You should be with your family,
not gathering these things.
Your woman
needs you.
My son lies with the ancestors in the reef.
This is our home.
I said I would stand and fight,
but I can't fight gunships with spears.
We sank the demon ship.
The pink skins fear us now.
Yeah? We got lucky.
And they got many more ships.
Least we got these.
We are grateful you stand with us, Jakesully.
It is not guns we need.
It is Rider of Last Shadow.
Ride great toruk
as you did before.
When you ride the beast,
you become the beast.
And the more blood, the better.
I will not become
Toruk Makto again.
Jakesully,
you are always Toruk Makto.
Come. Rotxo.
Can you hear me?
Yeah, we can hear you loud and clear.
Go on, Doc.
So, uh, we've been through the wreck, inside and out.
Uh, we've searched to about a 200-meter radius around it.
We didn't find any Na'vi bodies.
Just crew or what's left of 'em.
Well, keep looking, Doctor.
- Expand the search radius. - Roger that.
Of note though,
I did find an interesting new algae.
Hello? Can you hear me?
- Sully is still out there. - We don't know that.
Scavengers could have carried off the bodies.
Nope. He made it out.
And he's in this area. Down to a handful of villages.
You just give me a ship and I'll
I gave you a ship.
It's right there, on the bottom.
Yeah. Along with my crew.
All dead.
You brought me out here,
twenty-six trillion miles,
for a single mission,
a kinetic hard kill op
against one guy.
I ain't backing off.
Are we still connected? Hello?
Do they have me on mute?
The spirit of my ancestors is in this bow.
It was our strength.
I can help you fix it, Lo'ak.
No!
It's ruined!
Everything I touch gets ruined.
They never talked about it.
But it was there in the room.
Like a crouching thanator.
I know you will never give up your bow.
So
Just don't be close when it hits.
So, you agree with Ronal?
I will never speak against my husband
in front of that woman.
Look, I'm a marine.
I'm not taking a knife to a gunfight.
Or a prayer.
So, what am I supposed to do?
I can't run. I can't fight.
Oh, that's right.
Eywa will provide. Yeah? So, where was Eywa?
Where was Eywa when our son
Jake!
I'm in this place where I have nothing.
Not my people, not my forest.
Even my father's bow is gone.
All I have
is my faith
that this is the Great Mother's plan.
You have this family.
And you have me.
And I love you so much.
Yeah, Payakan, you're the man!
Whoa. Bro, Bro.
This is sick!
-Whoo! Whoo! -Whoo-hoo!
Whoo!
- Whoo! - Bro, come on! Go, go, go, go!
-Oh, sh -Yeah!
That was insane, cuz.
I know, right, Bro?
I thought you were dead.
It sucks that Payakan is still an outcast.
Yeah. After saving all of us.
No. I'm sorry,
but by the tulkun way, he bears the deaths.
All those who died in the battle.
He bears those deaths.
I'm sorry. You saved us all.
Forever, Brother.
Always.
Dad!
-Wait, where's the spare? -It's in the basket, I think.
Hey! Wake up! Where is it?
-Hey! Where's the spare mask? -What?
Where's the spare mask? Used to be there. Where is it?
-I don't know. -Find it.
-It's not here. -Speak to me. Where is it?
- I can't find it. - Hey, hey! Where is it?
-Come on. Come on. Come on. -I got it. Dad.
-Dad. I found it. -Hurry.
Spider, no.
Breathe.
-Breathe. -Breathe.
Deep and slow.
There you go. You're okay.
I'm good. I'm good. I'm okay.
Skxawng. You have to be careful.
-Careful's my middle name. -Yeah, skxawng.
You should be more careful, little baby.
Pay attention.
-Get off. Get off. Get off. -Stupid is your middle name.
-Be careful, little baby. -No, let him go.
-You have to pay attention. - Skxawng is his middle name.
-Are you sure you're okay? -Yeah, I feel fine.
The Windtraders.
The Windtraders are here.
The Windtraders are coming.
Come on!
Come on. Let's go.
Come on.
Come on, Tuk.
Whoo!
Hey!
Tsireya.
Look.
Look at him.
He's not going to take up much room.
As long as he's no trouble.
-Take a knee. Let's go. Tuk. -Kiri.
-Come on, Kiri. -What?
-Kiri, please. -Children, please sit down.
Please, sit.
Your mother and I have come to a decision.
Spider, you're going to live back in High Camp with Norm.
-What? -The Windtraders will take you.
-No, Dad. -No, Dad. He can't.
Spider, you can't live in a mask
day and night.
I just want to stay here with you.
-I know, but it's too risky. -This isn't fair.
Please. You're the only family I've ever known.
This is what's best for you.
But, Dad, he's our best friend.
Can't we just find a way?
It's too dangerous.
You're one dead battery away from being dead yourself.
He belongs with his own kind.
Mom.
And what kind is that, Mother? Alien?
-Kiri. -Pink-skin.
-Kiri. -Stop.
You hate them so much, that's all you see.
It's Spider.
Please, Jake.
Mr. Sully, I won't be any problem. You know that.
Dad, this isn't right.
Spider is part of this family.
He will never
-be a part of this family. -Mother, no.
The caravan is the safest way to move him.
-No, please. -He's going today.
-You can't do this. Dad, he's -It's a done deal.
Enough! This is a family. It's not a democracy.
All right?
I hate you!
This is what is best, baby girl.
-No! -Hey, it's okay.
Don't touch me!
Hey. It's okay.
- You understand? - No.
I already lost my brother.
I can't lose anyone else.
Sullys stick together.
Yep, that's the family motto.
-It's bogus. -This isn't fair.
Okay, okay.
Hey. All right. How about this?
We all go together to drop him off.
Kiri.
You said you wanted to see your grandmother.
Yeah, it will be an adventure. For the whole family.
Yeah. Cool.
Hey, stay here.
Our arrangement was for the pink-skinned boy only.
We won't be any trouble.
You are already trouble.
A trader must move freely.
We cannot choose sides.
Having Toruk Makto on board
cuts very close to choosing a side in this war.
Yeah, but you're mistaken.
Toruk Makto was never on your ship.
But if he was ever aboard, then
him and his woman would be happy to fly as outriders
and protect your caravan.
Perhaps so.
The Mangkwan raiders grow more aggressive.
Hmm.
Very well. I meet you on this.
Cast off!
Come on.
Cast off below!
Lo'ak! Lo'ak!
Oh, Tsireya! Tsireya!
Lo'ak!
Ready about!
Ready about! On all lines.
Bow to starboard.
Windward vanes out full!
Haul out and raise full to windward!
Heave!
Lighten ship. Come up easy.
Windward out full!
Make all and set taut!
Whoo! Yeah!
Everyone mourns in their own way.
For me,
it's being up here alone.
I feel him with me.
Bro, check it out.
I hear his voice in the wind.
Hold this.
-Hey, Dad, I've been thinking. -Yeah?
I should carry a rifle.
And I could fly with you.
Yeah.
That's gonna happen.
Why not?
You trained me to shoot, okay?
I know what I'm doing.
Yeah? Where's your comms?
I called you like five times.
Wear your comms.
That's rule number one.
You can't even do that.
Bring up the next one.
That's it.
What you got?
So, I promised this guy on imaging
a case of beer if he ever got something for us.
Long-range patrols clocked these guys
when they punched our airspace.
A routine flyby.
Here's the enhanced.
Smile, buster.
- When? - 1350 today.
I got coordinates.
Let's mount up.
Thank you.
Haul in hard!
Steady on course.
Your pack.
I'm good. I got plenty of time.
Clear ahead.
Jake!
Mangkwan!
Mangkwan raiders. Weapons up.
Sound the alarm!
- Weapons up! - Kiri, go.
-Run! -Go.
Get these out.
Come on, let's go. Let's go. To cover.
Go, go.
Protect your sisters. Can you do that?
Yes, sir. Stay under cover.
Repel boarders!
Spider, here.
Shoot, my comms.
Stay with the girls.
Bro, where are you going?
Bro, you're supposed to stay here.
Come on.
Release.
Get back.
I am
the fire!
Oh, sh
Hey!
- Tuk. - Go. Go.
Climb. Climb.
Get up. Hurry.
Spider, grab on.
Come on, let's go.
Hold on.
Neytiri, Neytiri, do you copy?
Crap, crap, crap, crap, crap.
-Guys, it's Lo'ak. -Where?
Come on. We gotta get him. Go. Go.
Lo'ak.
-Jump. -Bro, come on. Jump.
Now!
Go, go, go, go, go.
Hold on, everyone.
Hold on, Lo'ak.
Hold on. Tuk!
- Spider, my leg. - Kiri.
Pull.
-You okay? -Tuk.
Okay. You're okay.
Tuk, Tuk. Hey.
Hey, are you okay?
-Bro, you good? -Yeah, I'm good.
My sweet girl.
Sweet girl.
I'm so sorry.
-It's okay. -Thank you.
-Thank you. -Shoot.
Bro, my spare's on the ship.
What?
My backup's on that ship.
Shoot. Kiri, stay here.
Look. After them!
-We gotta go. We gotta go. -Shoot.
Come on, we gotta go.
Kiri, run. Kiri, come on. They're coming.
Go, go.
They're coming. Come on. Let's go.
Keep going. Go, go, go, go, go.
-Kiri, come on. This way. -Come on, Tuk.
- Come on. - Hurry.
-Keep going. Keep going. -Hurry.
- What happened? - Turn.
One goes through.
Tsahìk, look.
Knife.
On me.
-Come on. -Tuk, here.
There!
-They're coming. -Tuk.
Kiri, come on.
This way. Go, go.
Keep going.
-Come on, Tuk. This way. -Hurry. Hurry.
Gotta get in the water. Come on.
Go, go, go, go. Come on.
-Come on, come on. -Lo'ak!
Come on, swim!
Lo'ak!
I got you, Tuk. It's okay.
What does Dad always say?
Sullys stick together.
No, the other one.
-Sullys never quit. -That's right.
Sullys never quit.
Nothing.
Kiri.
-Lo'ak. Lo'ak. -Tuk, hold on.
Hold on.
Kiri.
Spider.
I'm fine. Grab my hand.
Eagle Eye, do you copy?
Lo'ak. Come in, boy, answer me.
Neytiri, how copy?
Neytiri, Neytiri,
how copy?
Neytiri, do you copy?
What
Tuk.
Swim.
Go.
- Grab onto a rock. - Come on.
I got you, Tuk. I got you.
-Is everybody okay? -Here you go.
You okay? Spider, you okay, Bro?
Yeah, I'm good.
Do you see them?
No. Let's get out of sight.
I wanna go home.
Tuk, come on.
-I'm tired, and I'm hungry. -I know.
-I wanna go home. -I am too. We'll go home.
Dad has no idea where we are.
We've got no comms.
We're on our own.
Bro, I've got to get a mask.
What What are we gonna do?
I don't know. Why am I in charge?
Calm down. We have to do something.
Shut up.
-Lo'ak. -Crap.
Crap, crap, crap, crap, crap, crap.
We have to go back to the ship.
No, we can't go back to the ship.
Those guys are between us and the ship.
No, that's our last known position.
That's where Dad is gonna be looking for us.
-Bro, no. -We'll just circle around them.
It's a good idea. Which way?
This way. Come on. Everyone, follow me.
It's all over, Jake.
You stay real still now.
Is that all you got?
All right. That'll do.
Still a smart one, huh? Let's see those hands.
Hands.
I I killed you.
I guess I don't die that easy, Corporal.
Help me.
Who hit you, Corporal?
Mangkwan raiders.
They call themselves "Ash People."
What's this?
They cut the kuru.
They take their enemies' to'a, their power.
That's worse than death to these guys.
Any sign of 'em?
Kids are gone.
That's fully charged,
which means he missed his mask change,
and he's running out.
And that's if these Ash People
don't get to him first.
We gotta go after these kids right now,
or you're never gonna see him again.
Can you track 'em?
That is not the mission. What are we doing?
We're burning time, Colonel.
Boss, we got him. We're outta here.
No, the cuffs stay. Which way?
Oh, you're gonna get me killed.
Again.
Come on. This way.
The river's got to be just up ahead. Come on.
Spider.
Bro.
-That's not good. -What can we do?
Monkey Boy, conserve your air.
Look at me.
Take slow breaths.
Lo'ak
-can you carry him? -Yeah, yeah.
Come on, Bro. Horsey rides.
Hop up.
The kids went in the water.
Smart move.
-No. -No, no, no, no, no.
No, no, no.
-Bro. -Oh, no, no, no. Spider.
Great Mother, save this Sky Person.
I beg you.
We don't have time for praying.
-He's dying. -Please.
It's okay. It's gonna be okay, buddy.
Just breathe.
Kiri.
Kiri, we need to go. Come on.
Come on, we have to go.
We can't sit around here. We have to keep going.
We're almost there.
We can't sit around here.
We have to go.
Tuk, go get her.
Kiri, come on.
Stop.
Bring him. Here.
Kiri, stop.
-Quickly. -Stop.
Do as I say.
Put him here.
Stop.
Kiri, what are you doing?
What are you doing?
I'm not sure.
This feels right.
What?
Be quiet. I can't talk.
Lo'ak. Lo'ak.
His mask. Take it off.
-What? -He can't breathe.
Come on.
Kiri.
Kiri, Kiri.
Lo'ak, no.
Oh, no. Oh, no.
Oh, no.
I'm so sorry.
I'm sorry.
Spider.
I'm breathing?
Yes, Monkey Boy.
You are.
I'm dead.
This is the Spirit World.
No, cuz. You're still here.
I'm breathing the air.
Yeah.
I'm breathing the air!
I guess I don't need this nonsense anymore.
Whoo!
Yeah, I'm breathing the air,
baby!
Bro, Bro, quiet. Quiet.
Thank you.
Spider.
Whatever you did. Thank you.
Shoot. Get back.
Kiri.
Stay behind me. Stay behind me.
We're cut off.
Bro!
Behind us.
No!
Kiri!
Tsahìk.
Ah.
How is he breathing with no mask?
I can't even think about that right now.
We gotta get in there.
Is not our air
poison
to Sky People?
How
do you still live,
air breather?
Because it is the will of Eywa.
Eywa?
Yes.
If I cut now,
do you think Eywa will come to save him?
Come on. Get these off me.
Come on. They're gonna kill him.
Do you think?
No.
Your goddess
has no dominion here.
Come on.
Now give me the knife.
Colonel.
You
will show me how this works.
Show me how to make thunder.
I can't.
It's empty. No thunder.
Make thunder.
I can't. It's empty.
Make it work.
I'm telling you, I'm telling you
there's no thunder.
Kill the youngest one.
No, no, no, no, no. Please.
-Please. Stop. -No.
Weapons down!
Down!
Mangkwan!
Now get back. Back.
- Dad. - Go on.
Stay back.
Get back. Get back.
-Dad. -Dad.
Sully, we good?
You ready? All right, kids. On me.
All right.
We're gonna ease on outta here.
- On me. On me. - Keep back.
Keep moving.
No!
Dad!
Come on.
Move.
- No! - Dad!
-Dad. -Dad! Dad!
You are strong,
Sky Man.
You
show me how to make thunder.
and that's the magic.
See?
And now you take aim.
What do you want to hit?
Well, just go like this.
Yeah.
Go on.
Feels good, doesn't it?
Uh-huh.
I do not need you now, Sky Man.
-Bind him well. -On your knees.
Prepare for sacrifice.
You, you. Come with me.
Clear the way!
Neytiri!
Cut her down. Cut her down. Hold her.
Neytiri, we got you.
You're gonna be okay. Okay?
We got you.
Max, prep for surgery. Go.
Open both doors.
These jerks know their knots.
Guys, come on.
-Come on. -Come on.
-Come on. -Move it. Move it!
It was the girl.
Come on. Get in.
This way.
Let's go.
Come on.
Through here.
Tsahìk.
They are gone.
We search by air.
Tarsem.
What? Oh.
Easy, easy. Max!
-Be still, child. -Okay. No, no, no.
No. Stop it. Stop her.
-Daughter. -My children.
-Neytiri, be calm. -My children!
Daughter, calm.
My children. The children.
Where?
Where are they?
Come on. Let's hustle. Max, get me in.
- Yeah, yeah. - Are we hot?
We're hot.
All right. Don't even calibrate.
No. You must rest, my child.
Daughter.
- Good luck. - Thank you.
I will ride.
Come. No. No.
I'm okay. I'm okay to walk.
I've got you.
This is good.
Lie down.
We're clear.
Yeah.
Which brings us to our
unresolved issues.
Well, I'm out of arrows.
Still got our knives.
Yeah, well I'm kind of tired.
Yeah.
Yeah, better save it.
In case those
flying monkeys show up.
Yeah, sure.
You and the missus must have done
something right, I'll give you that.
He's a good kid.
Yeah, he's a great kid.
Hey, uh, this don't mean
we're going to start taking long walks together.
I'm still bringing you in.
Dead, if I have to.
All this time out here and you still don't get it.
This world goes much deeper
than you imagine.
You witnessed it tonight.
With her.
And with him.
Don't matter.
It don't matter what color I am.
I still remember what team I'm playing for.
You got new eyes, Colonel.
All you got to do is open them.
It's them.
It's the Ash.
Get up. Come on. We got to move. Let's go.
-Come on. Come on. -Come on.
Come on. We got to move.
It's okay. It's okay.
They're ours. They're ours.
Tarsem!
- Jake. - Tarsem.
Kiri, Tuk, are you hurt?
How did you find us?
Children!
- Mother. - Mama.
Tuk. Tuk. Kiri.
Lo'ak.
- Hey. - Jake.
Are you okay?
Come here. It's okay.
We're okay.
Hey, Norm.
What's up?
What?
What
Dude.
Oh.
Yeah, I'm good on the whole air thing.
Tuktirey.
Kiri.
Iron Sky, Blue One actual.
We're inbound
at the city wall.
So, you think he's still with Sully?
I'd make book on it.
This is not my priority.
My priority is getting this city built
and sending back amrita to pay for it.
And who do you think
sets your priorities, General?
It's the big-picture guys.
So here's a big-picture concept for you.
How are we supposed to colonize this world
if we can't breathe the fricking air?
You want to find the boy,
you got to find Sully.
- And I'm there. - Ow. Ow.
How many more of these, huh?
Not many more.
That's what you said yesterday.
Don't be a baby.
Here's the most recent scan.
Now, you see this?
This is all mycelium.
It's basically the same thing
as the forest network.
Somehow,
it colonized him,
spread through his entire system
and then made changes
at the cellular level. I mean, look.
It altered his blood chemistry,
his nervous system, his lungs.
Can you get it out?
No, it's an endosymbiont.
We think they're keeping each other alive.
It could kill him if we even try.
But look. I mean, he's
he's alive.
He's healthy.
Maybe this is a good thing.
A good thing?
What if the RDA labs
could reverse engineer this?
What if every human being on Earth
could live here without a mask?
Uh, Jake, there's something else.
Sit. Hey, bud.
Hey.
- Okay, let me see. - Hey.
Hold-Hold still. Hold still. You're fine.
Look at that.
What are you doing?
What is that?
He's growin' a kuru.
-Wait, what? -Oh, yeah.
Great Mother,
are you there?
Please.
Hear my small voice.
I prayed to you in the forest
to save my friend.
I prayed so hard.
But you didn't come.
You didn't answer.
So I had to do it myself.
I don't know how I
I
I asked the roots to help me.
I don't remember how I
Please, no.
No, don't shut me out.
Why am I like this?
How am I doing these things?
Please, just talk to me.
Please.
No, no. Please, please.
No. No.
No. No!
- EEG is fine. - It's blinking. So
That's blood pressure. That's normal.
You want that blinking.
- Let's take these off. - Kiri.
-Run more tests. -Eywa never came to me.
I told you.
I don't know how I did it.
Drink.
Kiri.
My child, you are touched by the All Mother's hand.
This we have known
since you were born.
There's something you're hiding.
I have felt it
my whole life.
Just tell me the truth.
Please.
Tell her.
It is time.
My child.
You do not
have a father, Kiri.
What?
You
Your Your mother,
Grace's avatar,
now, when she was pregnant,
Norm ran some tests.
And it was a path pathelo
A-A parthenogenic birth.
You're genetically identical to the avatar.
There literally is no father.
I'm a clone?
Granddaughter.
It was the will of Eywa.
When the dreamwalker body lay here
in the Great Mother's hands
a seed was planted.
That really sucks.
That makes me even more of a freak.
No, granddaughter.
You are Eywa's child.
I don't care
how it happened.
You're my baby girl.
And I'm the only father you'll ever need.
If I am so special,
why does Eywa fold her ears to me?
Look, we don't know why,
but you're locked out from her.
It's some kind of firewall.
Yeah, it's like an encryption.
The harder you try to break in,
the harder it fights back.
Eywa has a path for you.
Though she chooses to conceal it,
you must trust in her.
I have to find out what it is.
No, you have to stop asking.
Kiri, if
if you try to connect again,
you could die.
You do it underwater, and you will die.
He can't stay here.
If the RDA get him
well, we'll never stop 'em.
If he is so dangerous,
to The People, to everything,
we should just kill him.
It's Spider.
He'll come with us. He'll come
to the reef.
We can protect him there.
Toruk Makto knows best.
Oh, come on, baby.
It's not like that.
It is decided.
Thirty meters. Get me up in there.
Get me in the pocket.
Get me in the pocket with the rocket.
Ten meters.
Here we go. And
Lung shot.
She's bleeding out.
Whoo!
A new demon ship has come.
Bigger.
More of our tulkun have been killed.
I'm so sorry, Brother.
Jakesully,
the outcast is stirring up the young bulls.
Our tulkun have called for council
to decide about him.
You must rest.
This must be removed. See me.
Kids. Kids, on me.
No, I'm serious. When it grows long enough,
I'm going to get my own ilu.
Skxawng.
You need a very small ilu.
Just you watch,
I'm going to get my own skimwing.
-Oh, a skimwing? -Then I'll be the one laughing.
So, how is this?
Your daughter,
your half-blood daughter,
with no training
Hold here.
has done what no Tsahìk could do?
Who are you to question the will of Eywa?
I am Tsahìk!
Then be Tsahìk!
These herbs do nothing!
Herbs from my forest heal faster.
I tell you to rest.
You do not rest.
Then you blame my herbs.
Hold still.
Stupid woman.
Careful, Tsahìk,
or I may forget
that you are with child.
The matriarch has spoken.
She says the outcast continues
to defy the tulkun way.
All killing is forbidden.
He was outcast for this,
but he has done it again.
The outcast attacked a demon ship,
bringing death to our people.
Even the son
of Toruk Makto.
Dad, they can't blame Payakan for that.
Not now.
She says he continues to disrupt,
spreading bad ideas among our young.
-It's nonsense. -It's not true.
She says he will only
bring more death.
Hey, why don't you
say something?
Just say something. Please.
She says the outcast
may not stay in
these waters.
-He must go far -No.
where his Song
cannot be heard.
Exiled for life.
That's not fair.
It is decided.
No! Payakan!
Brother! Please.
-No. Payakan! -No.
Brother!
This is This is wrong!
This is wrong!
You do not
speak here.
No. Payakan fought for us.
-He fought for us. -Lo'ak.
He saved your daughter's life.
-This is council. -He saved her life!
-You do not speak. -He defends us.
-This is council. -Lo'ak.
The elders have spoken.
The tulkun are being hunted.
They're dying.
Lo'ak, that's enough.
No!
-Lo'ak speaks the truth! -No, Tsireya.
- No! - Daughter!
-Payakan is a warrior! -Tsireya.
He fought for us.
More than you. Or you.
More than any of you!
- He fought for us! - Sit down!
Lo'ak.
Take him from here! -You do not speak here, boy.
- Make a hole. - Dad!
Listen to him!
We are in council!
The elders have spoken.
What are you doing?
You never stand up for me!
- Be seated. - Come with me.
Council continues.
We're at war. You understand that?
If you disobey orders,
people get killed.
With Spider here, we're trying to keep a low profile.
But that rogue is out there.
He's stirring up the young bulls.
He was going to bring the whole RDA down on us.
You want him gone.
That's why you didn't say anything.
He's a loose cannon.
He's just like you. In fact, if you hadn't gone
to him in the first place,
if you hadn't disobeyed orders,
then your brother would still be
That wasn't my fault.
Dad, that
That's not my fault!
Lo'ak.
Go to him, Jake.
Or you will lose another son.
I've got nothing to say to him.
Do not blame Lo'ak.
You said you could protect this family.
That, you could do.
Yeah, I thought we would be safe here.
Our son is dead, Jake.
I was wrong!
What do you want me to say?
That every decision that I made
for this family is wrong?
I killed our son?
And still we are here in this place,
hiding this pink skin,
this alien.
If I had to choose
between my family and a pink skin,
I would kill him right now.
Stop, stop, stop.
We're not doing this. Look.
We're not doing this.
You already chose
between your family and a pink skin once,
remember?
You cannot live like this, baby.
In hate.
I hate them, Jake. I hate them.
I hate them.
I hate their pink little hands.
I hate the insanity in their minds.
I'm a human.
Inside.
You hate me?
I'll always be an alien to you, won't I?
Doesn't matter how long I live in this skin.
Do you hate your children?
With their alien hands?
No.
Are you ashamed
every time they make a mistake,
every time they're different?
That's because of
the human inside them, right?
Yes.
I'm sorry, baby.
I'm sorry.
We have to stand strong right now.
This family is our fortress.
The People say that when you touch steel,
its poison seeps into your heart.
Lo'ak!
Brother.
Lo'ak.
Stay in this life, Brother.
We need you.
We love you.
You have greatness in you.
The strength of the ancestors is here.
A bow can be fixed.
Good. Good.
Moment of truth.
Whoa.
Go.
You feel her?
Heck yeah.
I got fins.
Yeah, you do.
-Whoo! -Whoo!
Go, Monkey Boy!
Whoo!
You. Face down!
Eyes on the ground.
Stay calm, my people.
Stay calm.
Spider. Huh?
I think we're wasting our time, Colonel.
-They don't know anything. -Oh, they know.
They're just not talking.
We got one more play,
but it's radical.
Hey, you remember me, don't you?
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
-Mine! -Just relax.
-Get him up. -I brought something for your Tsahìk.
-You take me to your Tsahì -Move!
-Hey, hey! -Move!
No need to do that.
-I got my eye on you. -Keep going.
Move!
Tsahìk.
What is he doing here?
I'll get you as many as you want.
What is your name, Sky Man?
Quaritch.
Colonel Miles Quaritch.
Hmm.
You touch me with that thing again, I'll kill you.
You will kill no one.
Lady, I'm gonna beg to differ.
Drop him.
Good trick
Quaritch.
You're next, cupcake.
So think careful about what you want to do.
Come.
We will talk inside.
What are you doing, boss?
Cozy.
See, thing is
everybody's lying to me.
They say that
you can make a stone speak the truth.
You seek a man,
the other Sky Man like you.
Not like me.
No, he's a traitor.
Well, then he must die.
Varang can help you find this man.
And the other you seek.
This
air breather.
First,
I must see your soul.
Be still.
Whoa.
Whoa. Whoa.
That's some strong stuff.
This
is the only pure thing in this world.
The fire came from the mountain
when I was little.
Burned our forest.
It took everything.
My people were starving.
They cried for help.
But Eywa did not come.
So I went to the fire.
And I learned its way.
I am the fire.
By my hand,
my people grow strong.
We do not lie down and die
just because Eywa
turns her back on us.
We turn our back on Eywa,
a weak mother
for weak children.
We do not suck
on the breast of weakness.
Now
only true words
will come from your tongue.
Mmm.
You have a strong heart.
No fear.
Ow.
That wasn't cool.
I will eat your heart, Quaritch.
Oh.
But first, you will answer me.
Why are you here?
I'm here for you.
You wish to serve me?
I don't serve anybody.
I need you.
Well, I do not need you.
But I might keep you
as my slave
to pleasure me.
That sounds like a fun weekend, but
that's not what you really want.
And what do I want?
What you've never had.
An equal.
You want to spread your fire
across the world.
Yeah.
I'll give you guns.
I'll give you comms.
RPGs.
Oh, that's strong magic.
Command from a distance,
strike like lightning.
The clans
as far as you can fly,
they'll bow down before Varang.
You want to take on Eywa
you need me.
I See you.
Damn right you do.
When I can connect again,
someday,
whenever,
I can be your guide in the Spirit World.
Well, can I just go now?
No.
Not without me.
A Sky Person can't just show up.
It'd freak out the ancestors.
They're starting to arrive
for the Calf Communion.
Yearling calves
and reef babies together
having their first bond with Eywa.
It'll be so beautiful.
Let me see.
Looks good.
I like this on you.
Come to the festival.
No, no, no, no.
Then I will just stay here with you.
Lo'ak, I should not tell you this, but
my tulkun Sister says
they have been hearing Payakan,
very faint, calling to his birth clan.
Where?
Tulkun Song travels very far through the water, Lo'ak.
Please.
Lo'ak.
Bye, Mom.
Where are you going?
Just out.
There's something I have to do.
Lo'ak!
Lo'ak, wait!
Lo'ak.
We cannot go.
The Calf Communion is in five days.
I have to go. This is my fault.
We are going.
All of us.
Get weapons and food.
Tell no one.
Our children have gone to look for him.
You let them?
They did not ask.
All right, we'll get the riders.
We'll go after them.
We cannot search the whole ocean.
We need the warriors here for Calf Communion
if the demon ships come.
My boy is out there by himself.
He will come back when he is ready.
This is his path.
Look at what he did.
Jake, the strength of the ancestors
runs in your son's veins.
You must trust that.
The way of water
has no beginning
and no end.
The sea is your home
before your birth
and after your death.
Where is the one
they call Toruk Makto?
How many fish are in the sea?
One, two.
How many birds are in the sky?
One, two, three
I mean, come on, you couldn't have asked Eywa
to make me a little bit taller?
Maybe even a little bit more blue.
No.
I was busy saving your life.
Skxawng.
Just a little bit.
A couple of centimeters.
She's the All Mother.
She can do anything.
You are perfect
just the way you are.
Come on, Monkey Boy.
So next thing is,
I'm going to learn how to ride a skimwing.
So you can become a mighty warrior
and protect us all.
Hey, it's not the size of the dog in the fight,
it's the size of the fight in the dog.
What is it?
Sh
Run!
Hurry!
Go. Go!
Spider.
Over here, idiots!
Come on!
Hey, skxawng!
This way, you bozos!
Come on, dummies!
Is that all you got?
Shoot!
Hey, hey!
Settle down there, cowboy.
Careful with that knife. That's how people get hurt.
Air breather.
We fly.
Break off.
Dragonfly, Blue One. You are cleared in.
- What is it? - Tuk!
They're blocking us in. Weapons up.
Weapons!
Where's your sister?
She went for water.
Where's Kiri? Where's Spider?
Dad!
-Where's Spider? -They took him.
The blue colonel took him.
Take him.
Be calm.
No fear.
No fear!
Jake Sully!
Take the girls, and you go now!
I will not go without you.
No. They got Spider.
There's nothing holding them back.
You've seen what they can do.
These people will die.
You cannot ask this.
Husband, I cannot.
This is the only way.
Jake Sully!
Show yourself!
You got to go. You got to go right now.
Take your sister. Go and hide.
Go!
If you stay, I stay.
I will kill many!
Whatever happens, do not raise that bow.
You swear to me.
I know he's here.
Give him to me.
He is Metkayina.
He is one of us.
He is one of us!
Burn something.
Dragon 2-4, lay down some incendiary
- on the center village. - Copy.
Switching incendiaries.
I want Jake Sully!
Stop. No. Hold your fire.
Hold your fire. Stop.
Hold fire.
Copy. Breaking off.
This is my path, Brother.
Colonel.
Corporal.
You take me,
and you leave my family and these people alone.
Not good enough.
Going to need the missus too.
You get me.
Both of you or I hammer this place flat.
Pregnant ladies, kids.
I'll blow grandma's skinny skirt
through the back of the hooch
'cause I just don't care.
And my pals here, well,
they're just dying to waste everybody
and take some scalps.
Really?
We doing this?
When I drop my arm,
you and your new girlfriend die.
You in particular die a lot.
I die, everybody here dies.
Maybe.
I think you can get some of us but not all of us.
Maybe we bum rush ya,
and your gunships hesitate
'cause we all look the same.
And then when you're begging
for your life
I'll scalp you.
Well, dang, Corporal.
I don't know if you're smart or just plain nuts.
You never struck me as all that smart.
I need your word, marine to marine.
Safety
for these people.
Burn them all, Quaritch.
Do we have a deal?
Done.
Want to pinky swear?
Take him.
Turn around.
Move.
-Let's go. -Come on.
Another time then,
Mrs. Sully.
Saddle up.
What do we got?
Ma'am, we have a big incursion.
-Banshee riders inbound. -I see that.
-So light 'em up. -I can't, ma'am.
Weapons locked out.
They all have IFF badges.
Expand it.
Echo 1-6, intersect the target.
All right. All right.
Hold him there.
Easy, easy.
Let's go.
- Jake! - Grab him.
Let's go. Move.
-Jake! Jake! -Bring him in.
Jake!
Up.
Mission accomplished, General.
Jake Sully.
Toruk Makto himself.
It's not enough for you to hand out guns,
you've got to bring hostiles inside the perimeter.
Not hostiles.
Allies.
General Ardmore, I'd like you to meet Varang,
Tsahìk of the Mangkwan.
Let me make this very clear, Colonel Cochise,
I want every one of these savages
escorted off my base
ASAP,
including your little missy over here.
Don't be a fool, General.
Take the win.
We got him, people!
Huh?
End of an era!
Yeah!
Whoo!
Tsahìk.
Let's go.
Easy, easy.
You'll just feel this a little bit.
Hold still.
Almost there.
-Good. Hold it there. -Another few seconds.
Payakan!
The People say
the sea washes you clean.
Payakan!
It's Lo'ak.
-It's him. -Lo'ak.
- It's him. - Lo'ak!
Skxawng, over here.
Lo'ak!
Tsireya!
They also say, if you see the deep ones,
the Tsyong
they're spirits sent to judge you.
- Tsyong! -Go, go, go.
Lo'ak. Lo'ak.
Lo'ak! Lo'ak!
Tsireya.
Thank you, Great Mother.
Come on, let him breathe.
Let him go.
Can't believe you guys came after me.
My friend's path is my path.
Is this your Sister?
Yes.
What about Payakan? Does she hear him?
He is close. He is coming now.
So, what have you got?
Uh, this mycelium that's living inside his body
Wait, there's something living inside of him?
Yes, it's an endosymbiont.
It's somehow moderating the ion exchange
Okay, stop. I don't need to know how it works.
I just need to know if we can duplicate it.
Let me out of here, you jerk-offs!
I told those rubber-gloved pukes
to lay off you for a while.
Where's Jake?
He's locked up, where he belongs.
Here.
I brought you a burger.
You better not hurt him.
He's not part of your life anymore.
You're with me now.
I'm your father.
My father's dead.
You're just some made-up thing
they gave his memories to.
No, no. No.
I'm still me. I checked.
Yeah, look.
"Colonel Miles Quaritch."
Deceased.
You know, we didn't get a chance
to talk too much
when we were out in the bush together, but, uh
I gotta thank you.
I mean, you hauled me out of a sunken ship.
You saved my life.
Yeah. Sure wish I hadn't done that.
Maybe that's true.
Maybe, deep down, it isn't.
Either way,
I owe you.
And I gotta tell you that, uh
Man, I'm proud of you.
You're an amazing kid. You got
guts, smarts, and
Son, you've got the heart of a lion.
I see myself in you. Oh, yeah.
I tell you who I really see in you,
and that's your mother.
Oh, man.
She was, uh, ferocious.
Tough to live with, but
I loved her.
And, man, did she love you.
Hardest thing she ever did
was climbing aboard that gunship that day,
going into battle,
leaving her little baby behind.
Your mom died a hero, Son.
You got that
in you too.
Anyway,
I didn't come down here
to take a trip down memory lane.
I just came by to tell you that I'm here for you.
If you need me.
I'm here for you.
Can I keep it?
Eat something, will you?
Brother!
I See you, Brother.
What is it?
What's wrong?
Didn't you find your birth clan?
Tulkun are already coming in,
but the aggregation doesn't peak until the eclipse,
which is the day after tomorrow,
and that's when we hit 'em.
No, no, hold on. No
- you're talking about wholesale slaughter. - -Uh-huh.
Hundreds killed. Entire pods just wiped out.
That's the beauty of the idea.
We'll fill a year's quota in just one day.
These are intelligent, soulful beings.
Who are you?
Ian Ian Garvin. Marine biologist.
These creatures,
they have culture, they have music,
they have names for each other.
This is organized.
This aggregation is deliberate.
It's a spiritual gathering for them
Get off your high horse, Garvin.
We all made our deals.
No, I did not sign up for this!
Dr. Garvin.
Dr. Garvin, thank you.
Your protest has been noted.
- Oh, it's been noted? - Yes.
Sub teams and fast boats,
you guys will form a cordon.
You'll drive the family groups
in here to where it forms a natural choke point
against the islands.
We got you, Sully!
I can't believe we got him.
Hey! Make a hole.
Open up.
Weapon, sir.
End of the line, Jake.
Zero-six tomorrow.
Varang wants your heart,
but I'm going old-school.
Firing squad.
Selfridge says it's a "better optic."
Yeah. Well, you be a good dog for the suits.
This isn't about them.
It's about me and you.
About a marine that betrayed my trust.
About the men and women I lost.
Dead man's memories.
Miles Quaritch
is gone.
You're free,
and there is a world out there.
There's things that those suits
will never understand.
The Na'vi call it kame, "to See."
And See this world.
See yourself.
I'll see you
at zero-six.
Last time, I got two.
Yeah, but they were
the ugliest ones in the village.
Open. Watch him.
Hands on the wall. Hands on the wall.
-All right, we're good. -Close it. Go.
It's nothing. Just one of Quaritch's scouts.
Watch for me.
Okay, you've got a PhD.
How hard can it be?
Ah, it's not crazy, man. If I was
- four or five feet taller. - Yeah.
Felt the suckers, but they're sharp as blades too.
They're not soft.
Guys, we're gonna go grab drinks.
Check this out.
What's up, cutie?
-She wants me. -Ah.
What?
Hey.
Quaritch.
We are the fire. Mangkwan.
Make no sound, witch.
Where is Jakesully?
Ah, the wife. Loyal to her man.
Speak or I cut.
Where?
I will not ask again.
No, wait.
Wait.
Past the camp.
A cage for an animal.
Take me there.
Move. Which way?
Hey, sugar!
Join the party.
Get after her.
I want her heart!
Go, go, go.
Take cover!
- Watch out. - Clear the area!
Jake!
General.
-Not now. I have a situation. -No
I have a situation.
The kid is loose, and I need him back.
Alive.
Light her up.
Hey. Whoa.
Stop. Stop!
Out of the way, guys. Move it.
Fire. Hit him.
Out of the way, guys.
Blade down.
Go, Jake.
Light him up.
Reverse.
Gotcha.
Aim for the cameras.
Okay. Stay with me.
Stay with me.
What am I doing?
Go! Back up.
Is my protest noted now, fools?
Jake,
this way.
No. No, this way. This way.
-Come on. -Okay.
Ian Garvin, marine bio.
Oh.
-Come on. -Hey, I-I gotta say,
I'm a real big fan of everything you've done.
I'm more than a little awe-inspired right now.
-The way that you -Shut up.
What's the plan?
This is as far as I'd got.
Well, then there's no plan.
Just Neytiri.
Come on.
Go, go, go.
Go, go.
Why are you doing this?
There's gonna be a massive tulkun hunt
the day after tomorrow.
They're gonna hit them with every ship they've got.
The Calf Communion.
You've got to stop them.
You're the only one who can.
Come on.
Sa'ata
Let's go.
-Oh, God. -Tuck in.
Go now. Go.
Oh, shoot.
Dang it.
Go! Get out of here!
Lima 1-6, there's a subject
pinned down behind a vehicle.
- Is that Sully? - He's pinned down.
Switch missiles. Take him out.
Copy. Switching missiles.
Hey, remember me?
That's right, pendejos. Yeah.
I don't need this.
What are you gonna do? You gonna shoot me?
The kid's with him. The air breather.
- He's blocking my shot. -Move, move.
Don't shoot. Tell him not to shoot.
Lima 1-6, Blue One.
Hold your fire. Keep visual on him.
1-6, hold your fire.
Get more assets on that position.
Yeah, you're not gonna shoot me. You know why?
Because you can't.
You know what you can do though?
You can kiss my face.
Yeah. Come on, Jake.
Go. What are you doing?
Come on. Go. Go. Come on.
He's moving west.
Maintaining a target lock. The shot is not clear.
Hey, stay on me.
Stay close to me.
I'm not gonna play this game.
Lima 1-6, take your shot.
-No, don't shoot. -Get him out of here.
Belay that. Hold your fire.
Go, go, go.
Lima 1-6
- What are you doing, man? - Lima 1-6,
you are cleared hot. Weapons free.
Unable. I've lost visual. Coming around.
-He's coming back around. -This way.
This is
Blue One. Check your fire.
Lima 1-6,
you are cleared hot.
1-6, in hot.
Down!
Ma Jake.
Neytiri.
Baby.
I don't know whether to kiss you or yell at you.
You waste time.
Come on. Let's go.
Let's go.
Land anywhere.
Man, I gotta take a huge leak.
You guys landed just in time.
What is it?
Why are we stopping?
They didn't even put a fly in this thing.
That's just dumb.
Good idea.
Drink first, then piss in the stream.
What is it, Jake?
I was wrong.
We can't protect him.
I've gotta take this stuff off. It's itchy as hell.
Quaritch has this woman.
He can find us wherever we go.
They will get him.
They will study him.
And when humans can breathe our air
then they will spread across this world,
and they will destroy the forests,
the oceans, everything.
Just like on Earth.
Then the Na'vi people
will be gone.
The tulkun will be gone.
And I can't let that happen.
Man. Are you hungry?
'Cause I'm starving.
You were right.
It has to be done.
Jake.
He saved your life.
This is the only way.
Spider
Come here.
What's going on?
What is it?
Just come with me.
Come on. Let's go.
Hey, stop for a second. I gotta take a leak.
Just stay close.
Where are we going?
Be quiet.
So, is this, like, a talk?
Come here.
Come on. Come on.
Go.
This'll work.
Kneel.
-No. -Kneel down.
Please.
Jake, please stop.
Eyes front. Don't move.
Please,
you don't have to do this.
Shh!
Please.
Great Mother, are you here?
You don't have to do this.
Guide my hand.
Please don't do this.
Give me strength.
Just stop.
Please stop. Please.
-Don't look at me. -Please.
Don't look at me.
Forgive me, Son.
I'll be good.
May your spirit go to Eywa.
-I promise. -May your body
return to the forest
Please, Dad.
to preserve the Great Balance.
May the ancestors welcome you.
Please.
May the ancestors hold you.
May they sing your Song.
I know I have to go to Eywa now.
It's okay.
But
Do you
Do you still love me?
With all my heart.
Ma Jake. Ma Jake.
I See you.
Whatever happens, it won't be this way.
Then we will find another way.
My dad knew in his heart
there was only
ever one path.
No matter how you imagine yourself,
as a father,
as a husband,
sooner or later,
you're back on it.
Hello, old friend.
Toruk loved my father.
It knew they were greater together.
That when they flew,
there would be blood.
He is coming.
Toruk Makto!
No, no, no. Just
Please, stand.
Stand up. Please.
-Baby. -Jake.
Please. It's okay.
It's okay.
Go now
to all the clans within a day's ride
and tell 'em
Tell 'em Toruk Makto calls to them.
And you tell 'em
the day has come.
And so it came to pass
that Toruk Makto returned.
My father united the clans
once again.
He made the great speeches.
Many arrows together
cannot be broken.
We cannot be broken!
But he knew that it wasn't enough.
Great Matriarch,
wise elders,
the Sky People are coming.
Here, today.
Right now.
To kill our tulkun families.
I beg you,
fight with us.
She says, "We respect Toruk Makto,
but our ways are ancient."
"We believe
that killing will only bring more killing,
in an endless, expanding spiral."
Hear my words.
The Sky People will never stop.
Not until the last of the tulkun is hunted.
Lo'ak.
Stop.
Lo'ak, what are you doing? You can't be here.
Dad, wait.
I am Brother of tulkun. I have a right to speak.
Lo'ak speaks the truth. You must listen.
Tsireya.
She says, "His Brother is outcast."
You have no standing here.
If he is outcast,
then I am outcast.
And I am outcast.
Daughter, silence.
No.
You will never see me again.
And I and my Brother are outcast.
Aonung.
And we are
also outcast.
She says, "You may speak."
Hear my words.
My Brother returned to his birth clan
to defend them,
but his clan was wiped out
by the demon ships.
Only Ta'nok survived,
because she fought back.
Come forward.
Ta'nok says,
"I speak for the dead mothers
and the dead calves."
"I speak for my people and all our Songs."
"Gone.
Forever."
She says,
"I am the last. The blind witness to our end."
Ta'nok says,
"The tulkun way must change.
Payakan shows our path."
"We must fight."
We must fight!
What did she say?
They will decide.
Look at all of this.
I mean, there's hundreds of 'em.
And look at all these old ones.
And old is good.
They never stop growing,
which means more amrita.
And look at this mama.
She must be
100 meters.
You're briefing without me.
An oversight, I assume.
No, it was not an oversight.
After your fiasco with Sully,
you're done, Colonel.
You're confined to base
pending an investigation.
Negative on that. I need to roll.
Sully will be there, which means that Spider
will be there as well.
Don't look at him.
He's one step away from the brig himself.
Don't tell him not to look at me.
What are you gonna do? Call Daddy?
-You mean the chairman? -That's enough.
I can still complete this mission.
Look at you.
You're a disgrace to your uniform.
Assuming you remember what a uniform is.
You're grounded, Colonel.
Permanently.
Why are you here, girl?
To pray, Tsahìk.
No, child.
Why did you come to us?
Perhaps
it was for this moment.
Only a chosen one
may call
upon the Warrior Mother.
Tsahìk.
You're having contractions.
I fear we will
we will not survive this.
Kiri.
Hear my words.
If there is something you can do,
then you must do it.
You have a strong heart.
Here.
I'm riding with you?
No, I need you here.
I can't do this
unless I know you kids are safe.
You keep your post no matter what happens.
You read me?
Lima Charlie, sir.
If your father and I do not return,
you take Spider and the girls
and you go as far and as fast as you can.
Holy shikes.
General, this flux is off the scale.
Keep a wide radius from that flux devil.
That thing will rip your face off.
Roger. Gun runner coming right.
Okay, boys.
Let's make some bank.
Yeah.
Let's go. Let's do this.
Whoo!
Sub teams, get wet.
Yeah, baby.
Let's do this.
See any hostiles?
Negative. No movement.
And the big guys
are just doing their thing.
Fish in a barrel, Scoresby.
Hold.
Just hold.
Hang on.
There's no bulls
and no big females.
There's no elders.
Hold up, everybody.
Sir, I got a big signature.
Tulkun. Big ones.
Lots of big ones.
Multiple tulkun inbound.
Scoresby, I thought you told me
they're not aggressive.
Well, they're not.
Generally.
I've lost visual.
Dude, they're fighting.
Yes! Yes!
This way. Get to the hatch!
Now!
Watch out!
Man your weapons.
Open fire.
Port side.
Reload.
Watch out!
Yeah, Jake.
Bro, look.
Yes!
Yeah!
Jake.
It's the Ash.
Bogeys inbound. Banshee riders.
Over a hundred.
They're friendlies. They have IFF badges.
They're ours.
Thanks for getting Sully out in the open, General.
I'll take it from here.
They can't win.
They're dying.
Kiri!
- Stop her! - Kiri. Kiri, stop.
-Kiri. -Stop, stop, stop. Get back
to the shelter right now. It's not safe out here.
I have to call to the Great Mother.
If you connect underwater, it'll kill you.
You can't do this. We have to go.
No, Tuk. You can't be out here right now.
Go. Get back.
-Kiri, wait. No, stop. -Kiri, stop.
-Kiri, stop. -Kiri!
- Kiri. - Kiri.
-Come on. -No, wait.
Crap, crap Tuk, you stay back. I mean it.
Lo'ak, come on.
Do not follow me.
Come on.
Lo'ak, they're coming.
Fight with us.
Go. I'll stay with her.
Come on.
All Mother,
hear my words.
Please help us.
I beg you.
You are our only hope.
Please.
We need you.
Don't push me away.
Please don't.
No. Please, please.
No, no, no.
Monkey Boy.
Let's do this.
Come on.
Fire.
I beg you. Please.
No, please.
The People are dying.
Please, no.
- Tuk. - Come on.
Come on.
We can do this.
Sullys never quit.
Come on. Let's go.
- Tuk. - Come on.
Great Mother, help us.
We beg you.
The People are dying.
I call upon the Warrior Mother.
You are our only hope.
Fire.
No!
That's him. Get after him.
Flank out. Box him in.
Sa'ata.
Good girl.
- You okay? - Yes.
Where's Kiri?
Jake, I'm down.
Get to safety.
Do not attack.
We're done.
No.
Dad!
-Lo'ak. -Dad.
-Lo'ak. -It's okay.
I got you.
Tsahìk.
You stay here. I'm going back for her.
You can't leave me by myself.
Sa'ata, wait.
I am dying.
No, you're not.
Why must you always argue?
I am
I am dying.
But first I will push out this baby.
Then push!
I got you.
I'm gonna pull it on three.
Don't. Don't. Just
Just don't.
I gotta pack the wound.
Kiri. Kiri.
Kiri.
Are you okay?
- I'm okay. - Good.
Push, Tsahìk.
You have one more push.
She is coming.
Take your child.
Thank you
Neytiri.
Thank you.
What is her name
She is
She is Pril.
Be strong.
Pril is a good name.
You will protect her?
Yes.
Dad, I'm I'm sorry I left my post.
-It's okay, Son. -No.
You've proven yourself to me.
I mean, getting the tulkun to fight.
Toruk Makto couldn't do it,
and you did it.
I'm proud of you.
Twenty-two, what's your status?
Casualties?
All right, people.
Let's get ourselves together.
We've still got work to do.
Seriously?
There's a hundred billion dollars
waiting in that cove,
and nothing standing in our way.
Beers are on me.
Your name
is Pril.
Your mother was powerful.
You will be powerful too.
Mrs. Sully.
Spoils of war.
Dad. Dad, look.
No!
I need you now.
By my side.
I need my wingman.
-Okay. -Let's move out.
Jake, I know you're out there.
I know you can hear me.
Varang here's lighting up your wife pretty good.
No!
Now, I want you to come in,
and I want you to bring Spider with you.
And I know you copy that.
Thanks, baby.
Picadors, get in there. Go, go.
Go!
They're trapping them.
Let's get those heifers herded in tight.
A hundred meters.
Get me in there. Get me in range.
Shoot.
Matadors, ahead slow.
Even spacing.
Sub teams,
torpedoes ready.
Arm torpedoes.
Arming one through four. Torpedoes armed.
Sixty meters.
Target lock.
Safeties off.
Stand by to fire.
Look.
Hold your fire.
Hold fire for what?
We've got a situation down here.
It's Eywa. It worked.
It worked.
Look out!
Get us out of here.
Whoa.
Look out!
Go, go. Hit it.
All boats back to the ship. All boats back
to the ship.
Yeah.
That's right, buttholes.
Oh, God.
Get us out of here.
Can't. Propulsion's down.
I need power. Get me back up.
General,
flux devil's pulling us in.
Abandon ship.
Abandon ship!
Stay close.
Clear.
Tuck in.
Get to the lifeboats. Get off the ship.
Run!
Okay. I'll need covering fire.
Okay. I'm gonna push left,
down the port side and get around behind them.
Get eyes on me.
-Just watch me. -Yes, sir.
And don't shoot anyone you love.
Go, go.
Colonel, this is Spider.
I'm here.
Don't kill them.
Where are you, boy?
Step out now.
All right. I'll come out.
Spider!
Do you hear me?
We're running out of time.
Come on.
Tsahìk.
I'm here to make a deal.
Me for them.
That can happen.
Come with me, Son.
I'm a man of my word.
We can resolve this here and now.
Everybody goes home.
Circle up.
We're out of here.
Tuk.
Come on, Tuk.
Leave my mother alone.
Brat!
Hyah.
Go find your mother.
Get her off the ship.
Hang on, kid.
Spider, here.
Jake!
Spider.
Jake.
- Go. - Grab on.
Go, go!
Shoot.
Jake! Jake!
I'll kill you!
I swear!
You gonna kill your own father?
Do not test me.
Give me that.
You little maggot!
Come on. Jake, come on.
Get out of here.
Go on.
Oh, shoot.
Jake!
Son!
Spider, no!
Hand him up.
Come on.
Pull me up.
If you hadn't've shot me in the arm
I oughta let you go.
Then do it,
Dad.
You're some piece of work, kid.
Pull us up.
Take my hand.
Jake.
Come on.
We got you.
Well, this is awkward.
Now what?
We all gonna
hold hands and sing?
I "learn to See"?
You have a choice.
Wait.
Wait. Wait.
Ain't this a trip?
Dad, Dad.
Ma Jake, s-sit.
Come here.
The light always returns.
We all connect
with the Great Mother
who holds all her children
in her heart.
New life keeps the energy flowing
like the breath of the world.
My Brother's voice was heard.
He was accepted by the clan.
In the Spirit World,
we call upon the strength of the ancestors.
All those who have walked the path before us.
Come on, Monkey Boy. Come on.
Go on. Go on.
Sir.
I See you.
-Bro. -Whoa.
Skxawng.
I'm happy to see you,
Little Bro.
Cuz.
Mom, this is Spider.
I've heard all about you.
Troublemaker.
You are alive
for the first time.
And your spirit
will live in Eywa.
Forever.
You are one of us now.
You are one of The People.
No way.
♪ Our love Will never fade away ♪
♪ We're diamonds in the dark ♪
♪ I put my head Against your chest ♪
♪ And listen To your heart ♪
♪ 'Cause you are my home No matter where I go ♪
♪ Never alone 'Cause somehow I always know ♪
♪ Even through the flames ♪
♪ Even through the ashes In the sky ♪
♪ Baby, when we dream We dream as one ♪
♪ Every time I breathe ♪
♪ It's a song To keep this love alive ♪
♪ I know when we dream We dream as one ♪
♪ So beautiful When we're together ♪
♪ Like feathers on a wing ♪
♪ Riding right beside me We're two arrows in the wind ♪
♪ 'Cause you are my home ♪
♪ No matter where I go ♪
♪ Never alone ♪
♪ I've never been afraid To let you know that ♪
♪ Even through the flames ♪
♪ Even through the ashes In the sky ♪
♪ Baby, when we dream We dream as one ♪
♪ Every time I breathe ♪
♪ It's a song To keep this love alive ♪
♪ I know when we dream We dream as one ♪
♪ Dream ♪
♪ Dream, dream, dream, dream ♪
♪ Dream, dream, dream ♪
♪ Even through the flames ♪
♪ Even through the ashes In the sky ♪
♪ Baby, when we dream We dream as one ♪
♪ Every time I breathe ♪
♪ It's a song To keep this love alive ♪
♪ I know when we dream We dream as one ♪
♪ Every time we dream We dream as one ♪